---
layout: post
title: DTGridView
---

<p>For some reason I never posted about this when I released it, and I fully intended to, but such is life&#8230; <a title="DTGridView src page on BitBucket." href="http://bitbucket.org/danielctull/dtkit/src/tip/DTGridView/" target="_blank">DTGridView</a> is an iPhone UIKit component for implementing large (or small) gridded views in a memory efficient way. It occurred to me earlier in the year that it may be useful to have a two-dimensional table view, and since it&#8217;s conception I have been able to make grids and horizontal scrolling elements as fast as I could make a nice looking table view.</p>
<p>It uses the same technique as UITableView, by having cells have a reuse identifier and using this to reuse cells that happen to move offscreen. The algorithm for working out off-screen cells went through about three re-writes before I found one that was efficient enough to give smooth scrolling, but accurate checks.</p>
<p>The grid view itself is a proper UIScrollView, so you get all the benefits (scroll bars, deceleration, bouncing&#8230;) plus the automatic layout and memory handling that grid view adds.</p>
<p>It follows the same methodology as UITableView by having you provide a dataSource and gridDelegate (as it itself  is a delegate of the superclass, I needed a new name for the delegate) to gather data and let you know about important events, the protocols of which are shown in the <a title="DTGridView.h on BitBucket.org" href="http://bitbucket.org/danielctull/dtkit/src/tip/DTGridView/DTGridView.h" target="_blank">grid view&#8217;s header</a>. In all seriousness, I looked at UITableView, took it&#8217;s API and modified it only slightly to give me what I needed.</p>
<h3>The future of DTGridView</h3>
<p>There are still loads of things I want to add. In fact some of them I added view subclasses, such as <a title="DTInfiniteGridView on BitBucket.org" href="http://bitbucket.org/danielctull/dtkit/src/tip/DTInfiniteGridView/" target="_blank">InfiniteGridView</a> to allow infinite scrolling, but I really want to round up these extensions and bolt-ons to the main grid view class. I&#8217;d love to add pinch zooming to zoom into views, which I&#8217;ve just not had time to look into yet. I&#8217;ve seen examples and I&#8217;m sure it&#8217;s completely doable with some thought.</p>
<p>Also, I was recently asked whether it could be used to layout a grid for a timeline, where data can be inserted when it comes. I realised then that grid view isn&#8217;t really very good at loading specific pieces of data like this, however (and here&#8217;s the confession), this is the exact thing that inspired DTGridView int he first place!</p>
<p>I worked on a project that involved laying out a grid of information, and realised that it would be nicer if I had something to lay out the views on the scroll view automatically. So I definitely want to tackle this, I&#8217;m sure being a timeline, there&#8217;d be a certain amount of infiniteness about it too&#8230;</p>
<p>Hopefully, I get a chance to work on some of these things soon, and as I tidy up the current implementation, I&#8217;ll try to add better documentation to what&#8217;s happening, if only so I know how the hell it works.</p>